<h3><a id="graph_layouts"></a>Graph Layouts</h3>

<p>Graph cells can be drawn anywhere in a simple application,
including on top of one another. Certain applications need to present
their information in a generally ordered, or specifically ordered
structure. This might involve ensuring cells do not overlap and stay at
least a certain distance from one another, or that cells appear in
specific positions relative to other cells, usually the cells they are
connected to by edges. This activity, called the layout application, can
be used in a number of ways to assist users in setting out their graph.
For non-editable graphs, layout application is the process of applying a
layout algorithm to the cells. For interactive graphs, meaning those
that can be edited through the UI, layout application might involve only
allowing users to make changes to certain cells in certain positions, to
re-apply the layout algorithm after each change to the graph, or to
apply the layout when editing is complete.</p>

<p><img src="https://jgraph.github.io/mxgraph/docs/images/mx_man_graph_layout.png" /><br/>
<em>Layout of a workflow using a horizontal hierarchical layout</em></p>

<p>mxGraph supports a range of tree, force-directed and hierarchical
layouts which will fit most layout needs. See the later section on using
the layouts for more information.</p>

<p>In a client-server architecture there are two options for how
layouts can be run. The Javascript versions provide the ability to run
the layouting entirely on the client, while the same layout
implementation in Java on the server-side enables the option to offload
some processing to the server, if required.</p>